mocp: add page (#5734)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/mocp.md

# mocp

> Music on Console (MOC) audio player.
> More information: <https://moc.daper.net/>.

- Launch the MOC terminal UI:

`mocp`

- Launch the MOC terminal UI in a specific directory:

`mocp {{path/to/directory}}`

> - Add a specific song to the play queue while MOC is in the background:

Reviewer: Hi @tom-on-the-internet.
I don't understand if this command starts `moc` in the background. is the terminal UI only launched in foreground when is executed without arguments?

Reviewer 2: @navarroaxel I think you tagged the wrong person here.

To your question: You're right. In order to use arguments like `--stop` or `--play`, there has to be a running `MOC`server either in the background or in another shell. If you run any of those if there's no running server you get an error.

`mocp --enqueue {{path/to/audio_file}}`

- Add songs recursively to the play queue while MOC is in the background:

`mocp --append {{path/to/directory}}`

- Clear the play queue while MOC is in the background:

`mocp --clear`

> - Play first song in the play queue while MOC is in the background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Play the first song in the play queue while MOC is in the background:
```
Almost missed.

`mocp --clear`

- Play or stop the currently queued song while MOC is in the background:

`mocp --{{play|stop}}`

> - Stop the MOC server while it is in the backgroud:

Reviewer 3: I like the shorter way this sounds, but if anyone disagrees we can skip it.
```suggestion
- Stop the MOC server while it's in the backgroud:
```

Author: shorter works for me. i'll give it a bit in case anyone objects. otherwise i'll make the suggestion.

Reviewer 3: Oops @navarroaxel did you see this convo?

Reviewer: Oh, I saw your approve and I didn't check this. Can you add this change to #5748 ?

Reviewer: @bl-ue Oh, I saw your approve and I didn't check this. Can you add this change to #5748 ?

# mocp

> Music on Console (MOC) audio player.

> > More information: <http://moc.daper.net/>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> More information: <https://moc.daper.net/>.
```

> - Launch MOC terminal UI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Launch the MOC terminal UI:
```

`mocp`

> - Launch MOC terminal UI in specific directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Launch the MOC terminal UI in a specific directory:
```

`mocp {{path/to/directory}}`

- Launch MOC in background:

> `mocp &`

Reviewer 2: This isn't really `mocp`-specific, so we usually don't list it in the tldr pages. Also, removing it would solve the problem, that a page shouldn't have more than 8 examples.

> - Add individual song to play queue while MOC is in background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add a specific song to the play queue while MOC is in the background:
```

`mocp --enqueue {{path/to/audio_file}}`

> - Add songs recursively to play queue while MOC is in background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add songs recursively to the play queue while MOC is in the background:
```

`mocp --append {{path/to/directory}}`

> - Clear the play queue while MOC is in background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Clear the play queue while MOC is in the background:
```

`mocp --clear`

> - Play first song in play queue while MOC is in background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Play first song in the play queue while MOC is in the background:
```

`mocp --play`

> - Stop any playing songs while MOC is in background:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Stop any playing songs while MOC is in the background:
```

`mocp --stop`

> - Close MOC while it is in backgroud:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Close MOC while it is in the backgroud:
```
